README.md, before:

 [![Android Arsenal](http://img.shields.io/badge/Android%20Arsenal-MPAndroidChart-blue.svg?style=flat)](http://android-arsenal.com/details/1/741)  [![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart.svg?label=maven central)](https://jitpack.io/#PhilJay/MPAndroidChart)      [![API](https://img.shields.io/badge/API-8%2B-green.svg?style=flat)](https://android-arsenal.com/api?level=8)

Remember: *It's all about the looks.*


![alt tag](https://raw.github.com/PhilJay/MPChart/master/design/feature_graphic.png)

**MPAndroidChart** is a powerful & easy to use chart library for Android, supporting line-, bar-, scatter-, candlestick-, pie- and radarcharts (spider web), as well as scaling, dragging (panning), selecting and animations. Works on **Android 2.2 (API level 8)** and upwards.

An **iOS** version of this library is now available, go check it out: [**ios-charts**](https://github.com/danielgindi/ios-charts)

Are you using this library? Add your project to the [**references**](https://github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart/edit/master/Projects_using_MPAndroidChart.txt).

Donations
-----

**This project needs you!** If you would like to support this project's further development, the creator of this project or the continuous maintenance of this project, **feel free to donate**. Your donation is highly appreciated (and I love food, coffee and beer). Thank you!

**PayPal**

 - [**Donate 5 $**] (https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=7G52RA87ED8NY): Thank's for creating this project, here's a coffee (or some beer) for you!
 - [**Donate 10 $**] (https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=4C9TPE67F5PUQ): Wow, I am stunned. Let me take you to the movies!
 - [**Donate 15 $**] (https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=YKMPTFMVK3JMC): I really appreciate your work, let's grab some lunch! 
 - [**Donate 25 $**] (https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=H9JA4QX7UHXCY): That's some awesome stuff you did right there, dinner is on me!
 - [**Donate 50 $**] (https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=ZPQVJ2XRBSBYY): I really really want to support this project, great job!
 - [**Donate 100 $**] (https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=KY7F59RYPCYCQ): You are the man! This project saved me hours (if not days) of struggle and hard work, simply awesome!
 - [**Donate 300 $**] (https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=PGW8CXUHZS2T2): I can afford it and want to assure the further development and maintenance of this project. Furthermore, I also want to show my gratitude to it's creator.
 - Of course, you can also [**choose what you want to donate**](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=EGBENAC5XBCKS), all donations are awesome!

**Spread the word**

<a href="https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=Check%20out%20the%20awesome%20MPAndroidChart%20library%20on%20Github:%20https://github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart" target="_blank" title="share to twitter" style="width:100%"><img src="https://github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart/blob/master/design/twitter_icon.png" title="Share on Twitter" width="35" height=35 />
<a href="https://plus.google.com/share?url=https://github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart" target="_blank" title="share to twitter" style="width:100%"><img src="https://github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart/blob/master/design/googleplus_icon.png" title="Share on Google+" width="35" height=35 />
<a href="https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https://github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart" target="_blank" title="share to twitter" style="width:100%"><img src="https://github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart/blob/master/design/facebook_icon.png" title="Share on Facebook" width="35" height=35 />

Follow me on **Twitter**: [**@PhilippJahoda**](https://twitter.com/PhilippJahoda)

Download my [**iOS apps**](https://itunes.apple.com/us/artist/philipp-jahoda/id951309215).

Demo
-----

For a brief overview of the most important features, please download the **PlayStore Demo** [**MPAndroidChart Example.apk**](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.xxmassdeveloper.mpchartexample) and try it out. The corresponding code for the demo-application is also included in this repository inside the **MPChartExample folder**.

[![ScreenShot](https://github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart/blob/master/design/video_thumbnail.png)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ufaK_Hd6BpI)

Questions & Issues
-----

If you are having questions or problems, you should:

 - Make sure you are using the latest version of the library. Check the [**release-section**](https://github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart/releases).
 - Study the [**Documentation-Wiki**](https://github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart/wiki)
 - Search or open questions on [**stackoverflow**](https://stackoverflow.com/search?q=mpandroidchart) with the `mpandroidchart` tag
 - Search [**known issues**](https://github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart/issues) for your problem (open and closed)
 - Create new issues (please **search known issues before**, do not create duplicate issues)

Features
=======

**Core features:**
 - Scaling on both axes (with touch-gesture, axes separately or pinch-zoom)
 - Dragging / Panning (with touch-gesture)
 - Combined-Charts (line-, bar-, scatter-, candle-data)
 - Dual (separate) Y-Axis
 - Finger drawing (draw values into the chart with touch-gesture)
 - Highlighting values (with customizeable popup-views)
 - Multiple / Separate Axes
 - Save chart to SD-Card (as image, or as .txt file)
 - Predefined color templates
 - Legends (generated automatically, customizeable)
 - Customizeable Axes (both x- and y-axis)
 - Animations (build up animations, on both x- and y-axis)
 - Limit lines (providing additional information, maximums, ...)
 - Fully customizeable (paints, typefaces, legends, colors, background, gestures, dashed lines, ...)
 - Smooth zooming and scrolling for up to 30.000 data points in Line- and BarChart
 
**Chart types:**

 - **LineChart (with legend, simple design)**
![alt tag](https://raw.github.com/PhilJay/MPChart/master/screenshots/simpledesign_linechart4.png)
 - **LineChart (with legend, simple design)**
![alt tag](https://raw.github.com/PhilJay/MPChart/master/screenshots/simpledesign_linechart3.png)

 - **LineChart (cubic lines)**
![alt tag](https://raw.github.com/PhilJay/MPChart/master/screenshots/cubiclinechart.png)

 - **LineChart (single DataSet)**
![alt tag](https://raw.github.com/PhilJay/MPChart/master/screenshots/linechart.png)

 - **Combined-Chart (bar- and linechart in this case)**
![alt tag](https://raw.github.com/PhilJay/MPChart/master/screenshots/combined_chart.png)

 - **BarChart (with legend, simple design)**

![alt tag](https://raw.github.com/PhilJay/MPChart/master/screenshots/simpledesign_barchart3.png)

 - **BarChart (grouped DataSets)**

![alt tag](https://raw.github.com/PhilJay/MPChart/master/screenshots/groupedbarchart.png)

 - **Horizontal-BarChart**

![alt tag](https://raw.github.com/PhilJay/MPChart/master/screenshots/horizontal_barchart.jpg)


 - **PieChart (with selection, ...)**

![alt tag](https://raw.github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart/master/screenshots/simpledesign_piechart1.png)

 - **ScatterChart** (with squares, triangles, circles, ... and more)

![alt tag](https://raw.github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart/master/screenshots/scatterchart.png)

 - **CandleStickChart** (for financial data)

![alt tag](https://raw.github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart/master/screenshots/candlestickchart.png)

 - **RadarChart** (spider web chart)

![alt tag](https://raw.github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart/master/screenshots/radarchart.png)



Usage
=======

In order to use the library, there are 4 options:

**1. Gradle dependency**

 - 	Add the following to your `build.gradle`:
 ```gradle
repositories {
	    maven { url "https://jitpack.io" }
}

dependencies {
	    compile 'com.github.PhilJay:MPAndroidChart:v2.0.9'
}
```

**2. Maven**
- Add the following to your `pom.xml`:
 ```xml
<repository>
       	<id>jitpack.io</id>
	    <url>https://jitpack.io</url>
</repository>

<dependency>
	    <groupId>com.github.PhilJay</groupId>
	    <artifactId>MPAndroidChart</artifactId>
	    <version>v2.0.9</version>
</dependency>
```

**3. jar file only**
 - Download the [**latest .jar file**](https://github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart/releases) from the releases section
 - Copy the **mpandroidchartlibrary-.jar** file into the `libs` folder of your Android application project
 - Start using the library
	
**4. clone whole repository**
 - Open your **commandline-input** and navigate to your desired destination folder (where you want to put the library)
 - Use the command `git clone https://github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart.git` to download the full MPAndroidChart repository to your computer (this includes the folder of the library project as well as the example project)
 - Import the library folder (`MPChartLib`) into your Eclipse workspace
 - Add it as a reference to your project: [referencing library projects in Eclipse](http://developer.android.com/tools/projects/projects-eclipse.html#ReferencingLibraryProject)

Documentation
=======
For a **detailed documentation**, please have a look at the [**Wiki**](https://github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart/wiki).

Furthermore, you can also rely on the [**MPChartExample**](https://github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart/tree/master/MPChartExample) folder and check out the example code in that project. The corresponding application to the example project is also  [**available in the Google PlayStore**](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.xxmassdeveloper.mpchartexample). 

You have a problem that cannot be solved by having a look at the example project and documentation?
No problem, let's talk: [![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=body_badge)

License
=======
Copyright 2015 Philipp Jahoda

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

**Special thanks** to [danielgindi](https://github.com/danielgindi), [mikegr](https://github.com/mikegr), [ph1lb4](https://github.com/ph1lb4) and [jitpack.io](https://github.com/jitpack-io) for their contributions to this project.

Commit message:

Readme: add notice about Proguard
  * When using proguard and NOT whitelisting MPAndroidChart, some functionality
    will break like animate methods.

Change-Id: If329842301eb41f7f713c1148b5ca364917e3d7a
Signed-off-by: Alexander Martinz <eviscerationls@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

 [![Android Arsenal](http://img.shields.io/badge/Android%20Arsenal-MPAndroidChart-blue.svg?style=flat)](http://android-arsenal.com/details/1/741)  [![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart.svg?label=maven central)](https://jitpack.io/#PhilJay/MPAndroidChart)      [![API](https://img.shields.io/badge/API-8%2B-green.svg?style=flat)](https://android-arsenal.com/api?level=8)

Remember: *It's all about the looks.*


![alt tag](https://raw.github.com/PhilJay/MPChart/master/design/feature_graphic.png)

**MPAndroidChart** is a powerful & easy to use chart library for Android, supporting line-, bar-, scatter-, candlestick-, pie- and radarcharts (spider web), as well as scaling, dragging (panning), selecting and animations. Works on **Android 2.2 (API level 8)** and upwards.

An **iOS** version of this library is now available, go check it out: [**ios-charts**](https://github.com/danielgindi/ios-charts)

Are you using this library? Add your project to the [**references**](https://github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart/edit/master/Projects_using_MPAndroidChart.txt).

Donations
-----

**This project needs you!** If you would like to support this project's further development, the creator of this project or the continuous maintenance of this project, **feel free to donate**. Your donation is highly appreciated (and I love food, coffee and beer). Thank you!

**PayPal**

 - [**Donate 5 $**] (https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=7G52RA87ED8NY): Thank's for creating this project, here's a coffee (or some beer) for you!
 - [**Donate 10 $**] (https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=4C9TPE67F5PUQ): Wow, I am stunned. Let me take you to the movies!
 - [**Donate 15 $**] (https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=YKMPTFMVK3JMC): I really appreciate your work, let's grab some lunch! 
 - [**Donate 25 $**] (https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=H9JA4QX7UHXCY): That's some awesome stuff you did right there, dinner is on me!
 - [**Donate 50 $**] (https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=ZPQVJ2XRBSBYY): I really really want to support this project, great job!
 - [**Donate 100 $**] (https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=KY7F59RYPCYCQ): You are the man! This project saved me hours (if not days) of struggle and hard work, simply awesome!
 - [**Donate 300 $**] (https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=PGW8CXUHZS2T2): I can afford it and want to assure the further development and maintenance of this project. Furthermore, I also want to show my gratitude to it's creator.
 - Of course, you can also [**choose what you want to donate**](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=EGBENAC5XBCKS), all donations are awesome!

**Spread the word**

<a href="https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=Check%20out%20the%20awesome%20MPAndroidChart%20library%20on%20Github:%20https://github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart" target="_blank" title="share to twitter" style="width:100%"><img src="https://github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart/blob/master/design/twitter_icon.png" title="Share on Twitter" width="35" height=35 />
<a href="https://plus.google.com/share?url=https://github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart" target="_blank" title="share to twitter" style="width:100%"><img src="https://github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart/blob/master/design/googleplus_icon.png" title="Share on Google+" width="35" height=35 />
<a href="https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https://github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart" target="_blank" title="share to twitter" style="width:100%"><img src="https://github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart/blob/master/design/facebook_icon.png" title="Share on Facebook" width="35" height=35 />

Follow me on **Twitter**: [**@PhilippJahoda**](https://twitter.com/PhilippJahoda)

Download my [**iOS apps**](https://itunes.apple.com/us/artist/philipp-jahoda/id951309215).

Demo
-----

For a brief overview of the most important features, please download the **PlayStore Demo** [**MPAndroidChart Example.apk**](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.xxmassdeveloper.mpchartexample) and try it out. The corresponding code for the demo-application is also included in this repository inside the **MPChartExample folder**.

[![ScreenShot](https://github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart/blob/master/design/video_thumbnail.png)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ufaK_Hd6BpI)

Questions & Issues
-----

If you are having questions or problems, you should:

 - Make sure you are using the latest version of the library. Check the [**release-section**](https://github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart/releases).
 - Study the [**Documentation-Wiki**](https://github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart/wiki)
 - Search or open questions on [**stackoverflow**](https://stackoverflow.com/search?q=mpandroidchart) with the `mpandroidchart` tag
 - Search [**known issues**](https://github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart/issues) for your problem (open and closed)
 - Create new issues (please **search known issues before**, do not create duplicate issues)

Features
=======

**Core features:**
 - Scaling on both axes (with touch-gesture, axes separately or pinch-zoom)
 - Dragging / Panning (with touch-gesture)
 - Combined-Charts (line-, bar-, scatter-, candle-data)
 - Dual (separate) Y-Axis
 - Finger drawing (draw values into the chart with touch-gesture)
 - Highlighting values (with customizeable popup-views)
 - Multiple / Separate Axes
 - Save chart to SD-Card (as image, or as .txt file)
 - Predefined color templates
 - Legends (generated automatically, customizeable)
 - Customizeable Axes (both x- and y-axis)
 - Animations (build up animations, on both x- and y-axis)
 - Limit lines (providing additional information, maximums, ...)
 - Fully customizeable (paints, typefaces, legends, colors, background, gestures, dashed lines, ...)
 - Smooth zooming and scrolling for up to 30.000 data points in Line- and BarChart
 
**Chart types:**

 - **LineChart (with legend, simple design)**
![alt tag](https://raw.github.com/PhilJay/MPChart/master/screenshots/simpledesign_linechart4.png)
 - **LineChart (with legend, simple design)**
![alt tag](https://raw.github.com/PhilJay/MPChart/master/screenshots/simpledesign_linechart3.png)

 - **LineChart (cubic lines)**
![alt tag](https://raw.github.com/PhilJay/MPChart/master/screenshots/cubiclinechart.png)

 - **LineChart (single DataSet)**
![alt tag](https://raw.github.com/PhilJay/MPChart/master/screenshots/linechart.png)

 - **Combined-Chart (bar- and linechart in this case)**
![alt tag](https://raw.github.com/PhilJay/MPChart/master/screenshots/combined_chart.png)

 - **BarChart (with legend, simple design)**

![alt tag](https://raw.github.com/PhilJay/MPChart/master/screenshots/simpledesign_barchart3.png)

 - **BarChart (grouped DataSets)**

![alt tag](https://raw.github.com/PhilJay/MPChart/master/screenshots/groupedbarchart.png)

 - **Horizontal-BarChart**

![alt tag](https://raw.github.com/PhilJay/MPChart/master/screenshots/horizontal_barchart.jpg)


 - **PieChart (with selection, ...)**

![alt tag](https://raw.github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart/master/screenshots/simpledesign_piechart1.png)

 - **ScatterChart** (with squares, triangles, circles, ... and more)

![alt tag](https://raw.github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart/master/screenshots/scatterchart.png)

 - **CandleStickChart** (for financial data)

![alt tag](https://raw.github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart/master/screenshots/candlestickchart.png)

 - **RadarChart** (spider web chart)

![alt tag](https://raw.github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart/master/screenshots/radarchart.png)



Usage
=======

In order to use the library, there are 4 options:

**1. Gradle dependency**

 - 	Add the following to your `build.gradle`:
 ```gradle
repositories {
	    maven { url "https://jitpack.io" }
}

dependencies {
	    compile 'com.github.PhilJay:MPAndroidChart:v2.0.9'
}
```

**2. Maven**
- Add the following to your `pom.xml`:
 ```xml
<repository>
       	<id>jitpack.io</id>
	    <url>https://jitpack.io</url>
</repository>

<dependency>
	    <groupId>com.github.PhilJay</groupId>
	    <artifactId>MPAndroidChart</artifactId>
	    <version>v2.0.9</version>
</dependency>
```

**3. jar file only**
 - Download the [**latest .jar file**](https://github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart/releases) from the releases section
 - Copy the **mpandroidchartlibrary-.jar** file into the `libs` folder of your Android application project
 - Start using the library
	
**4. clone whole repository**
 - Open your **commandline-input** and navigate to your desired destination folder (where you want to put the library)
 - Use the command `git clone https://github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart.git` to download the full MPAndroidChart repository to your computer (this includes the folder of the library project as well as the example project)
 - Import the library folder (`MPChartLib`) into your Eclipse workspace
 - Add it as a reference to your project: [referencing library projects in Eclipse](http://developer.android.com/tools/projects/projects-eclipse.html#ReferencingLibraryProject)

Proguard
=======

In case you are using Proguard, you will need to whitelist MPAndroidChart, which requires to add the following line to your Proguard configuration file.

```
-keep class com.github.mikephil.charting.** { *; }
```

Documentation
=======
For a **detailed documentation**, please have a look at the [**Wiki**](https://github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart/wiki).

Furthermore, you can also rely on the [**MPChartExample**](https://github.com/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart/tree/master/MPChartExample) folder and check out the example code in that project. The corresponding application to the example project is also  [**available in the Google PlayStore**](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.xxmassdeveloper.mpchartexample). 

You have a problem that cannot be solved by having a look at the example project and documentation?
No problem, let's talk: [![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/PhilJay/MPAndroidChart?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=body_badge)

License
=======
Copyright 2015 Philipp Jahoda

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

**Special thanks** to [danielgindi](https://github.com/danielgindi), [mikegr](https://github.com/mikegr), [ph1lb4](https://github.com/ph1lb4) and [jitpack.io](https://github.com/jitpack-io) for their contributions to this project.
